.TH "SUBTITLEEDITOR" "1" "October 4, 2025" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
subtitleeditor — Graphical subtitle editor with sound waves representation
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 15
\fBsubtitleeditor\fR
.RB
[ \-? | \-h | \-\-help | \-\-help\-all | \-\-help\-gst | \-\-help\-gtk ]
.PP
\fBsubtitleeditor\fR
.RB
[ \-p | \-\-profile
.IR PROFILE ]
.RB
[ \-v | \-\-video
.IR FILE ]
.RB
[ \-w | \-\-waveform
.IR FILE ]
.RB
[ \-e | \-\-encoding
.IR ENCODING ]
.RI [ FILE ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
This manual page documents briefly the
\fBsubtitleeditor\fR
command. As
\fBsubtitleeditor\fR
is a GUI program, most of its options are available through the GUI interface, rather than the command\-line.
.PP
\fBsubtitleeditor\fR
is a GTK+3 tool to edit subtitles. It can be used to create new subtitles or as a tool to transform, edit, correct and refine existing subtitles.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`\-'). A summary of options is included below.
.PP
\fB\-?\fR \fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 3n
Show summary of options.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
.RS 3n
Show all help options.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-help\-gst\fR
.RS 3n
Show GStreamer options.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-help\-gtk\fR
.RS 3n
Show Gtk+ options.
.RE
.SH "Application Options:"
.PP
\fB\-f \-\-file\=FILE\fR
.RS 3n
Open a subtitle file (or multiple subtitled files: -f \fIFILE1\fR -f \fIFILE2\fR --file=\fIFILE3\fR …).
.PP
Positional arguments are treated as implicitly using this option, so
"\fBsubtitleeditor\fR \-f \fIFILE\fR" is equivalent to "\fBsubtitleeditor\fR \fIFILE\fR".
.RE
.PP
\fB\-p \-\-profile\=NAME\fR
.RS 3n
The name of the configuration profile. Default value is “default“. Subtitleeditor follows the XDG Base Directory Specification, so unless \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR is set, profiles are typically stored in \fI~/.config/subtitleditor/\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-e \-\-encoding\=ENCODING\fR
.RS 3n
Encoding used to open subtitle files.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-v \-\-video\=FILE\fR
.RS 3n
Open video file.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-w \-\-waveform\=FILE\fR
.RS 3n
Open waveform file.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-display\=DISPLAY\fR
.RS 3n
X display to use, if still run under X.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
For an overview of features and further information see:
.br
.I https://subtitleeditor.github.io/subtitleeditor/

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
This manual page was written by Amaya Rodrigo Sastre
<amaya@debian.org> for the Debian(TM) system. It was modified by Anibal Avelar <aavelar@cofradia.org> and Tomáš Hnyk <tomashnyk@gmail.com>.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
\fBAmaya Rodrigo\fR
.sp -1n
.IP "" 3n
Author.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2006 Amaya Rodrigo Sastre
.br
Copyright \(co 2008 Anibal Avelar
.br
Copyright \(co 2025 Tomáš Hnyk
.br
